that crackling sound is actually the
vaporization water and when that happens
basically ruptures the oil film and
since oil drop is flying everywhere so
you'll see if you remove the pan you'll
get a nice ring of oil droplets and some
of them hit your arm and normally you're
cursing than that happens because it's
actually quite painful after this
explosion they're often water droplets
in the oil droplets in the air and then
they'll sometimes explode too so you get
these beautiful Jets like just midair
yeah it's really I mean is gorgeous we
wanted to understand exactly what was
going on in that process so we just have
a mini frying pan which is a baton and I
have a minyan plate or steel plate about
that big and it has a little well that
we put the oil in and we just let that
heat up and we measure the temperature
with a thermocouple so we know exactly
what the temperature is so it's not just
low medium or high we know exactly what
the oil temperature really is and then
we film it with the high-speed camera
and do the aerosol sizing measurements
when these droplets fly out you get some
of the ones that hit your skin probably
millimetric in size but it's the other
stuff but you don't see and you don't
feel which we think is potentially
hazardous and adding to indoor air
pollution anything less than two and a
half microns in sizes respond to the
lower branches of the lungs some of
these are down to sub micron so they're
hundreds of nanometers in size that's as
small as we've been able to measure yeah
so they can be suspended in the air for
weeks
I guess our advice would be to use the
ventilation so if you have it and clean
the filters as well
you